P8105_HW3_sx2289.md, before:

P8105\_HW3\_sx2289
================
Shuhong Xinag
10/10/2020

``` r
devtools::install_github("p8105/p8105.datasets")
```

    ## Skipping install of 'p8105.datasets' from a github remote, the SHA1 (412759e3) has not changed since last install.
    ##   Use `force = TRUE` to force installation

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

\#\#Problem 1

``` r
library(p8105.datasets)
data("instacart")
```

This dataset contains 1384617 rows and 15 columns.

Observations are the level of items in orders by user. There are
user/order variables – user ID, order ID, order day, and order hour
.There are also item variables – name, aisle, department, and some
numeric codes.

How many aisles are there, and which aisles are the most items ordered
from?

``` r
instacart %>%
  count(aisle) %>%
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 134 x 2
    ##    aisle                              n
    ##    <chr>                          <int>
    ##  1 fresh vegetables              150609
    ##  2 fresh fruits                  150473
    ##  3 packaged vegetables fruits     78493
    ##  4 yogurt                         55240
    ##  5 packaged cheese                41699
    ##  6 water seltzer sparkling water  36617
    ##  7 milk                           32644
    ##  8 chips pretzels                 31269
    ##  9 soy lactosefree                26240
    ## 10 bread                          23635
    ## # … with 124 more rows

Make a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle,
limiting this to aisles with more than 10000 items ordered. Arrange
aisles sensibly, and organize your plot so others can read it.

``` r
instacart %>%
  count(aisle) %>%
  filter(n > 10000) %>%
  mutate(
    aisle = factor(aisle), 
    aisle = fct_reorder(aisle, n)
  ) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = aisle, y = n)) +
  geom_point()+
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.5, hjust=1))
```

![](P8105_HW3_sx2289_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

Make a table showing the three most popular items in each of the aisles
“baking ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables
fruits”. Include the number of times each item is ordered in your
table.

``` r
instacart %>%
  filter(aisle %in% c("baking ingredients", "dog food care", "packaged vegetables fruits")) %>%
  group_by(aisle) %>%
  count(product_name) %>%
  mutate(rank = min_rank(desc(n))) %>%
  filter(rank < 4) %>%
  arrange(aisle, rank) %>%
  knitr::kable()
```

| aisle                      | product\_name                                 |    n | rank |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- | ---: | ---: |
| baking ingredients         | Light Brown Sugar                             |  499 |    1 |
| baking ingredients         | Pure Baking Soda                              |  387 |    2 |
| baking ingredients         | Cane Sugar                                    |  336 |    3 |
| dog food care              | Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog Treats |   30 |    1 |
| dog food care              | Organix Chicken & Brown Rice Recipe           |   28 |    2 |
| dog food care              | Small Dog Biscuits                            |   26 |    3 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Baby Spinach                          | 9784 |    1 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Raspberries                           | 5546 |    2 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Blueberries                           | 4966 |    3 |

Make a table showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady Apples
and Coffee Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week; format this
table for human readers (i.e. produce a 2 x 7 table).

``` r
instacart %>%
  filter(product_name %in% c("Pink Lady Apples", "Coffee Ice Cream")) %>%
  group_by(product_name, order_dow) %>%
  summarise(mean_hour = mean(order_hour_of_day)) %>%
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = order_dow, 
    values_from = mean_hour
  )
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'product_name' (override with `.groups` argument)

    ## # A tibble: 2 x 8
    ## # Groups:   product_name [2]
    ##   product_name       `0`   `1`   `2`   `3`   `4`   `5`   `6`
    ##   <chr>            <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl>
    ## 1 Coffee Ice Cream  13.8  14.3  15.4  15.3  15.2  12.3  13.8
    ## 2 Pink Lady Apples  13.4  11.4  11.7  14.2  11.6  12.8  11.9

\#\#Problem 2

Load, tidy, and otherwise wrangle the data. Your final dataset should
include all originally observed variables and values; have useful
variable names; include a weekday vs weekend variable; and encode data
with reasonable variable classes. Describe the resulting dataset
(e.g. what variables exist, how many observations, etc).

``` r
accelerometer = 
read_csv("./data/accel_data.csv") %>%
  janitor::clean_names()%>%
  pivot_longer(
    cols = starts_with("activity"),
    names_to = "min",
    names_prefix = "activity_",
    values_to = "activity",
    values_drop_na = TRUE)%>%
  mutate(
    weekend_vs_weekday = case_when(
      day %in% c("Saturday", "Sunday") ~"weenkend",
      !(day %in% c("Saturday","Sunday")) ~ "weekday" 
    )
  ) %>%
  mutate(
    weekend_vs_weekday = as.factor(weekend_vs_weekday),
    week = as.factor(week),
    day_id = as.factor(day_id), 
    day = as.factor(day),
    min = as.numeric(min),
    activity = as.numeric(activity)
  ) %>%
  mutate(day = forcats::fct_relevel(day,
                                   c("Monday","Tuesday","Wednesday","Thursday","Friday", "Saturday","Sunday")))%>%
  group_by(week)%>%
  arrange(day, .by_group = TRUE)
```

    ## Parsed with column specification:
    ## cols(
    ##   .default = col_double(),
    ##   day = col_character()
    ## )

    ## See spec(...) for full column specifications.

``` r
accelerometer
```

    ## # A tibble: 50,400 x 6
    ## # Groups:   week [5]
    ##    week  day_id day      min activity weekend_vs_weekday
    ##    <fct> <fct>  <fct>  <dbl>    <dbl> <fct>             
    ##  1 1     2      Monday     1        1 weekday           
    ##  2 1     2      Monday     2        1 weekday           
    ##  3 1     2      Monday     3        1 weekday           
    ##  4 1     2      Monday     4        1 weekday           
    ##  5 1     2      Monday     5        1 weekday           
    ##  6 1     2      Monday     6        1 weekday           
    ##  7 1     2      Monday     7        1 weekday           
    ##  8 1     2      Monday     8        1 weekday           
    ##  9 1     2      Monday     9        1 weekday           
    ## 10 1     2      Monday    10        1 weekday           
    ## # … with 50,390 more rows

This final dataset contains 50400 rows and 6 columns. Observations in
the experiments are the activity counts for each minute of a 24-hour day
starting at midnight for five week. There are 1440 activity counts in
total.

Traditional analyses of accelerometer data focus on the total activity
over the day. Using your tidied dataset, aggregate accross minutes to
create a total activity variable for each day, and create a table
showing these totals. Are any trends apparent?

``` r
accelerometer %>%
  group_by(week,day)%>%
  summarise( total_activity_each_day = sum(activity, na.rm = TRUE)) %>%
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = day,
    values_from = total_activity_each_day
  )%>%
knitr::kable()
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'week' (override with `.groups` argument)

| week |    Monday |  Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday |   Friday | Saturday | Sunday |
| :--- | --------: | -------: | --------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -----: |
| 1    |  78828.07 | 307094.2 |    340115 | 355923.6 | 480542.6 |   376254 | 631105 |
| 2    | 295431.00 | 423245.0 |    440962 | 474048.0 | 568839.0 |   607175 | 422018 |
| 3    | 685910.00 | 381507.0 |    468869 | 371230.0 | 467420.0 |   382928 | 467052 |
| 4    | 409450.00 | 319568.0 |    434460 | 340291.0 | 154049.0 |     1440 | 260617 |
| 5    | 389080.00 | 367824.0 |    445366 | 549658.0 | 620860.0 |     1440 | 138421 |

From the table we can see this individual does bot have a stable
activity habit. There is no apparent tends. But we can see n Wednesday,
the person has a relatively stable activity but on Sunday, the activity
counts each minute are keeping decreasing.

Accelerometer data allows the inspection activity over the course of the
day. Make a single-panel plot that shows the 24-hour activity time
courses for each day and use color to indicate day of the week. Describe
in words any patterns or conclusions you can make based on this graph.

``` r
accelerometer %>% 
  group_by(day_id,day, week) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = min,
             y = activity,
             color = day,
             group = day_id))+
  geom_point()+
  stat_smooth(
    se = F,
    method = "loess",
    alpha = 0.5
  )+
  scale_y_continuous(name = "Hourly Activity Counts", 
                      trans = "sqrt")+
   scale_x_continuous(name ="Hours" ,
                     breaks = c(seq(120,1440,120)), 
                     labels = c("2am", "4am", "6am", "8am", "10am", "12pm","2pm", "4pm", "6pm","8pm", "10pm", "12am")) +
  viridis::scale_color_viridis(discrete = T,
                               name = "")+
  labs(title = "The 24-Hour activities in 5 Weeks for the 63 year-old male with BMI 25 ")
```

    ## `geom_smooth()` using formula 'y ~ x'

![](P8105_HW3_sx2289_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-10-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave("Problem 2_Hourly Activity.jpg")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image
    ## `geom_smooth()` using formula 'y ~ x'

From the graph, we can tell that 63 year-old male with BMI 25 usually
does activities during the time from around 8 am to 10 pm. Also, he less
active during the weekends.

\#\#Problem 3

Do some data cleaning. Create separate variables for year, month, and
day. Ensure observations for temperature, precipitation, and snowfall
are given in reasonable units. For snowfall, what are the most commonly
observed values? Why?

``` r
tidy_ny_noaa = 
  ny_noaa %>%
  separate(date, into = c("year","month","day")) %>%
  mutate_at(vars(year, month, day), as.factor) %>%
  mutate_at(vars(prcp, snow, tmax, tmin), as.numeric) %>%
  mutate(
    prcp = prcp / 10,
    tmax = tmax / 10,
    tmin = tmin / 10,
  )
  
skimr::skim_without_charts(tidy_ny_noaa)
```

|                                                  |                |
| :----------------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Name                                             | tidy\_ny\_noaa |
| Number of rows                                   | 2595176        |
| Number of columns                                | 9              |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_   |                |
| Column type frequency:                           |                |
| character                                        | 1              |
| factor                                           | 3              |
| numeric                                          | 5              |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ |                |
| Group variables                                  | None           |

Data summary

**Variable type: character**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate | min | max | empty | n\_unique | whitespace |
| :------------- | ---------: | -------------: | --: | --: | ----: | --------: | ---------: |
| id             |          0 |              1 |  11 |  11 |     0 |       747 |          0 |

**Variable type: factor**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate | ordered | n\_unique | top\_counts                                       |
| :------------- | ---------: | -------------: | :------ | --------: | :------------------------------------------------ |
| year           |          0 |              1 | FALSE   |        30 | 201: 159671, 200: 148721, 200: 122665, 200: 93249 |
| month          |          0 |              1 | FALSE   |        12 | 10: 224471, 12: 223603, 07: 220348, 08: 220100    |
| day            |          0 |              1 | FALSE   |        31 | 01: 85258, 02: 85258, 03: 85258, 04: 85258        |

**Variable type: numeric**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate |  mean |     sd |     p0 |   p25 |  p50 |  p75 |  p100 |
| :------------- | ---------: | -------------: | ----: | -----: | -----: | ----: | ---: | ---: | ----: |
| prcp           |     145838 |           0.94 |  2.98 |   7.82 |    0.0 |   0.0 |  0.0 |  2.3 |  2286 |
| snow           |     381221 |           0.85 |  4.99 |  27.22 | \-13.0 |   0.0 |  0.0 |  0.0 | 10160 |
| snwd           |     591786 |           0.77 | 37.31 | 113.54 |    0.0 |   0.0 |  0.0 |  0.0 |  9195 |
| tmax           |    1134358 |           0.56 | 13.98 |  11.14 | \-38.9 |   5.0 | 15.0 | 23.3 |    60 |
| tmin           |    1134420 |           0.56 |  3.03 |  10.40 | \-59.4 | \-3.9 |  3.3 | 11.1 |    60 |

``` r
tidy_ny_noaa %>%
  filter(snow != "NA") %>%
  count(snow)%>%
  filter(snow >= "0")%>%
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 280 x 2
    ##     snow       n
    ##    <dbl>   <int>
    ##  1     0 2008508
    ##  2    25   31022
    ##  3    13   23095
    ##  4    51   18274
    ##  5    76   10173
    ##  6     8    9962
    ##  7     5    9748
    ##  8    38    9197
    ##  9     3    8790
    ## 10   102    6552
    ## # … with 270 more rows

The most commonly value is 0, which means most of time there is no snow
in NY.

Make a two-panel plot showing the average max temperature in January and
in July in each station across years. Is there any observable /
interpretable structure? Any outliers?

``` r
plot_Jan_July = 
  tidy_ny_noaa %>%
  filter(month %in% c("01","07")) %>% 
  group_by(year, month, id) %>% 
  summarize(
    mean_tmax = mean(tmax),na.rm = T) %>%
  drop_na() %>%
  ggplot(
    aes(
      x = year,
      y = mean_tmax,
      color = id,
      group = id))+
geom_point()+
geom_path()+
  theme(legend.position = 'none',
        axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.5, hjust = 1)) +
  labs(title = "Highest mean temperature in January and in July",
       x = "Year",
       y = "Mean Temperature(C)")
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'year', 'month' (override with `.groups` argument)

``` r
ggsave("plot_Jan_July.jpg")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

From the graph, we can learned that the temperature keeps relatively
stable throughout the 30 years. There was only 2 times that the lowest
temperature were below the -10 C and the highest temperature were around
the 30 C. For the out liner, we can see some of them fro the graph, but
the number of them was very small.

Make a two-panel plot showing (i) tmax vs tmin for the full dataset
(note that a scatterplot may not be the best option); and (ii) make a
plot showing the distribution of snowfall values greater than 0 and less
than 100 separately by year.

plot\_i =

Commit message:

Plot of tmax vs tmin for the full dataset

P8105_HW3_sx2289.md, after:

P8105\_HW3\_sx2289
================
Shuhong Xinag
10/10/2020

``` r
devtools::install_github("p8105/p8105.datasets")
```

    ## Skipping install of 'p8105.datasets' from a github remote, the SHA1 (412759e3) has not changed since last install.
    ##   Use `force = TRUE` to force installation

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.0 ──

    ## ✓ ggplot2 3.3.2     ✓ purrr   0.3.4
    ## ✓ tibble  3.0.3     ✓ dplyr   1.0.2
    ## ✓ tidyr   1.1.2     ✓ stringr 1.4.0
    ## ✓ readr   1.3.1     ✓ forcats 0.5.0

    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## x dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## x dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

\#\#Problem 1

``` r
library(p8105.datasets)
data("instacart")
```

This dataset contains 1384617 rows and 15 columns.

Observations are the level of items in orders by user. There are
user/order variables – user ID, order ID, order day, and order hour
.There are also item variables – name, aisle, department, and some
numeric codes.

How many aisles are there, and which aisles are the most items ordered
from?

``` r
instacart %>%
  count(aisle) %>%
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 134 x 2
    ##    aisle                              n
    ##    <chr>                          <int>
    ##  1 fresh vegetables              150609
    ##  2 fresh fruits                  150473
    ##  3 packaged vegetables fruits     78493
    ##  4 yogurt                         55240
    ##  5 packaged cheese                41699
    ##  6 water seltzer sparkling water  36617
    ##  7 milk                           32644
    ##  8 chips pretzels                 31269
    ##  9 soy lactosefree                26240
    ## 10 bread                          23635
    ## # … with 124 more rows

Make a plot that shows the number of items ordered in each aisle,
limiting this to aisles with more than 10000 items ordered. Arrange
aisles sensibly, and organize your plot so others can read it.

``` r
instacart %>%
  count(aisle) %>%
  filter(n > 10000) %>%
  mutate(
    aisle = factor(aisle), 
    aisle = fct_reorder(aisle, n)
  ) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = aisle, y = n)) +
  geom_point()+
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.5, hjust=1))
```

![](P8105_HW3_sx2289_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

Make a table showing the three most popular items in each of the aisles
“baking ingredients”, “dog food care”, and “packaged vegetables
fruits”. Include the number of times each item is ordered in your
table.

``` r
instacart %>%
  filter(aisle %in% c("baking ingredients", "dog food care", "packaged vegetables fruits")) %>%
  group_by(aisle) %>%
  count(product_name) %>%
  mutate(rank = min_rank(desc(n))) %>%
  filter(rank < 4) %>%
  arrange(aisle, rank) %>%
  knitr::kable()
```

| aisle                      | product\_name                                 |    n | rank |
| :------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- | ---: | ---: |
| baking ingredients         | Light Brown Sugar                             |  499 |    1 |
| baking ingredients         | Pure Baking Soda                              |  387 |    2 |
| baking ingredients         | Cane Sugar                                    |  336 |    3 |
| dog food care              | Snack Sticks Chicken & Rice Recipe Dog Treats |   30 |    1 |
| dog food care              | Organix Chicken & Brown Rice Recipe           |   28 |    2 |
| dog food care              | Small Dog Biscuits                            |   26 |    3 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Baby Spinach                          | 9784 |    1 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Raspberries                           | 5546 |    2 |
| packaged vegetables fruits | Organic Blueberries                           | 4966 |    3 |

Make a table showing the mean hour of the day at which Pink Lady Apples
and Coffee Ice Cream are ordered on each day of the week; format this
table for human readers (i.e. produce a 2 x 7 table).

``` r
instacart %>%
  filter(product_name %in% c("Pink Lady Apples", "Coffee Ice Cream")) %>%
  group_by(product_name, order_dow) %>%
  summarise(mean_hour = mean(order_hour_of_day)) %>%
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = order_dow, 
    values_from = mean_hour
  )
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'product_name' (override with `.groups` argument)

    ## # A tibble: 2 x 8
    ## # Groups:   product_name [2]
    ##   product_name       `0`   `1`   `2`   `3`   `4`   `5`   `6`
    ##   <chr>            <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl> <dbl>
    ## 1 Coffee Ice Cream  13.8  14.3  15.4  15.3  15.2  12.3  13.8
    ## 2 Pink Lady Apples  13.4  11.4  11.7  14.2  11.6  12.8  11.9

\#\#Problem 2

Load, tidy, and otherwise wrangle the data. Your final dataset should
include all originally observed variables and values; have useful
variable names; include a weekday vs weekend variable; and encode data
with reasonable variable classes. Describe the resulting dataset
(e.g. what variables exist, how many observations, etc).

``` r
accelerometer = 
read_csv("./data/accel_data.csv") %>%
  janitor::clean_names()%>%
  pivot_longer(
    cols = starts_with("activity"),
    names_to = "min",
    names_prefix = "activity_",
    values_to = "activity",
    values_drop_na = TRUE)%>%
  mutate(
    weekend_vs_weekday = case_when(
      day %in% c("Saturday", "Sunday") ~"weenkend",
      !(day %in% c("Saturday","Sunday")) ~ "weekday" 
    )
  ) %>%
  mutate(
    weekend_vs_weekday = as.factor(weekend_vs_weekday),
    week = as.factor(week),
    day_id = as.factor(day_id), 
    day = as.factor(day),
    min = as.numeric(min),
    activity = as.numeric(activity)
  ) %>%
  mutate(day = forcats::fct_relevel(day,
                                   c("Monday","Tuesday","Wednesday","Thursday","Friday", "Saturday","Sunday")))%>%
  group_by(week)%>%
  arrange(day, .by_group = TRUE)
```

    ## Parsed with column specification:
    ## cols(
    ##   .default = col_double(),
    ##   day = col_character()
    ## )

    ## See spec(...) for full column specifications.

``` r
accelerometer
```

    ## # A tibble: 50,400 x 6
    ## # Groups:   week [5]
    ##    week  day_id day      min activity weekend_vs_weekday
    ##    <fct> <fct>  <fct>  <dbl>    <dbl> <fct>             
    ##  1 1     2      Monday     1        1 weekday           
    ##  2 1     2      Monday     2        1 weekday           
    ##  3 1     2      Monday     3        1 weekday           
    ##  4 1     2      Monday     4        1 weekday           
    ##  5 1     2      Monday     5        1 weekday           
    ##  6 1     2      Monday     6        1 weekday           
    ##  7 1     2      Monday     7        1 weekday           
    ##  8 1     2      Monday     8        1 weekday           
    ##  9 1     2      Monday     9        1 weekday           
    ## 10 1     2      Monday    10        1 weekday           
    ## # … with 50,390 more rows

This final dataset contains 50400 rows and 6 columns. Observations in
the experiments are the activity counts for each minute of a 24-hour day
starting at midnight for five week. There are 1440 activity counts in
total.

Traditional analyses of accelerometer data focus on the total activity
over the day. Using your tidied dataset, aggregate accross minutes to
create a total activity variable for each day, and create a table
showing these totals. Are any trends apparent?

``` r
accelerometer %>%
  group_by(week,day)%>%
  summarise( total_activity_each_day = sum(activity, na.rm = TRUE)) %>%
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = day,
    values_from = total_activity_each_day
  )%>%
knitr::kable()
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'week' (override with `.groups` argument)

| week |    Monday |  Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday |   Friday | Saturday | Sunday |
| :--- | --------: | -------: | --------: | -------: | -------: | -------: | -----: |
| 1    |  78828.07 | 307094.2 |    340115 | 355923.6 | 480542.6 |   376254 | 631105 |
| 2    | 295431.00 | 423245.0 |    440962 | 474048.0 | 568839.0 |   607175 | 422018 |
| 3    | 685910.00 | 381507.0 |    468869 | 371230.0 | 467420.0 |   382928 | 467052 |
| 4    | 409450.00 | 319568.0 |    434460 | 340291.0 | 154049.0 |     1440 | 260617 |
| 5    | 389080.00 | 367824.0 |    445366 | 549658.0 | 620860.0 |     1440 | 138421 |

From the table we can see this individual does bot have a stable
activity habit. There is no apparent tends. But we can see n Wednesday,
the person has a relatively stable activity but on Sunday, the activity
counts each minute are keeping decreasing.

Accelerometer data allows the inspection activity over the course of the
day. Make a single-panel plot that shows the 24-hour activity time
courses for each day and use color to indicate day of the week. Describe
in words any patterns or conclusions you can make based on this graph.

``` r
accelerometer %>% 
  group_by(day_id,day, week) %>% 
  ggplot(aes(x = min,
             y = activity,
             color = day,
             group = day_id))+
  geom_point()+
  stat_smooth(
    se = F,
    method = "loess",
    alpha = 0.5
  )+
  scale_y_continuous(name = "Hourly Activity Counts", 
                      trans = "sqrt")+
   scale_x_continuous(name ="Hours" ,
                     breaks = c(seq(120,1440,120)), 
                     labels = c("2am", "4am", "6am", "8am", "10am", "12pm","2pm", "4pm", "6pm","8pm", "10pm", "12am")) +
  viridis::scale_color_viridis(discrete = T,
                               name = "")+
  labs(title = "The 24-Hour activities in 5 Weeks for the 63 year-old male with BMI 25 ")
```

    ## `geom_smooth()` using formula 'y ~ x'

![](P8105_HW3_sx2289_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-10-1.png)<!-- -->

``` r
ggsave("Problem 2_Hourly Activity.jpg")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image
    ## `geom_smooth()` using formula 'y ~ x'

From the graph, we can tell that 63 year-old male with BMI 25 usually
does activities during the time from around 8 am to 10 pm. Also, he less
active during the weekends.

\#\#Problem 3

Do some data cleaning. Create separate variables for year, month, and
day. Ensure observations for temperature, precipitation, and snowfall
are given in reasonable units. For snowfall, what are the most commonly
observed values? Why?

``` r
tidy_ny_noaa = 
  ny_noaa %>%
  separate(date, into = c("year","month","day")) %>%
  mutate_at(vars(year, month, day), as.factor) %>%
  mutate_at(vars(prcp, snow, tmax, tmin), as.numeric) %>%
  mutate(
    prcp = prcp / 10,
    tmax = tmax / 10,
    tmin = tmin / 10,
  )
  
skimr::skim_without_charts(tidy_ny_noaa)
```

|                                                  |                |
| :----------------------------------------------- | :------------- |
| Name                                             | tidy\_ny\_noaa |
| Number of rows                                   | 2595176        |
| Number of columns                                | 9              |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_   |                |
| Column type frequency:                           |                |
| character                                        | 1              |
| factor                                           | 3              |
| numeric                                          | 5              |
| \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ |                |
| Group variables                                  | None           |

Data summary

**Variable type: character**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate | min | max | empty | n\_unique | whitespace |
| :------------- | ---------: | -------------: | --: | --: | ----: | --------: | ---------: |
| id             |          0 |              1 |  11 |  11 |     0 |       747 |          0 |

**Variable type: factor**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate | ordered | n\_unique | top\_counts                                       |
| :------------- | ---------: | -------------: | :------ | --------: | :------------------------------------------------ |
| year           |          0 |              1 | FALSE   |        30 | 201: 159671, 200: 148721, 200: 122665, 200: 93249 |
| month          |          0 |              1 | FALSE   |        12 | 10: 224471, 12: 223603, 07: 220348, 08: 220100    |
| day            |          0 |              1 | FALSE   |        31 | 01: 85258, 02: 85258, 03: 85258, 04: 85258        |

**Variable type: numeric**

| skim\_variable | n\_missing | complete\_rate |  mean |     sd |     p0 |   p25 |  p50 |  p75 |  p100 |
| :------------- | ---------: | -------------: | ----: | -----: | -----: | ----: | ---: | ---: | ----: |
| prcp           |     145838 |           0.94 |  2.98 |   7.82 |    0.0 |   0.0 |  0.0 |  2.3 |  2286 |
| snow           |     381221 |           0.85 |  4.99 |  27.22 | \-13.0 |   0.0 |  0.0 |  0.0 | 10160 |
| snwd           |     591786 |           0.77 | 37.31 | 113.54 |    0.0 |   0.0 |  0.0 |  0.0 |  9195 |
| tmax           |    1134358 |           0.56 | 13.98 |  11.14 | \-38.9 |   5.0 | 15.0 | 23.3 |    60 |
| tmin           |    1134420 |           0.56 |  3.03 |  10.40 | \-59.4 | \-3.9 |  3.3 | 11.1 |    60 |

``` r
tidy_ny_noaa %>%
  filter(snow != "NA") %>%
  count(snow)%>%
  filter(snow >= "0")%>%
  arrange(desc(n))
```

    ## # A tibble: 280 x 2
    ##     snow       n
    ##    <dbl>   <int>
    ##  1     0 2008508
    ##  2    25   31022
    ##  3    13   23095
    ##  4    51   18274
    ##  5    76   10173
    ##  6     8    9962
    ##  7     5    9748
    ##  8    38    9197
    ##  9     3    8790
    ## 10   102    6552
    ## # … with 270 more rows

The most commonly value is 0, which means most of time there is no snow
in NY.

Make a two-panel plot showing the average max temperature in January and
in July in each station across years. Is there any observable /
interpretable structure? Any outliers?

``` r
plot_Jan_July = 
  tidy_ny_noaa %>%
  filter(month %in% c("01","07")) %>% 
  group_by(year, month, id) %>% 
  summarize(
    mean_tmax = mean(tmax),na.rm = T) %>%
  drop_na() %>%
  ggplot(
    aes(
      x = year,
      y = mean_tmax,
      color = id,
      group = id))+
geom_point()+
geom_path()+
  theme(legend.position = 'none',
        axis.text.x = element_text(angle = 90, vjust = 0.5, hjust = 1)) +
  labs(title = "Highest mean temperature in January and in July",
       x = "Year",
       y = "Mean Temperature(C)")
```

    ## `summarise()` regrouping output by 'year', 'month' (override with `.groups` argument)

``` r
ggsave("plot_Jan_July.jpg")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

the graph, we can learned that the temperature keeps relatively stable
throughout the 30 years. There was only 2 times that the lowest
temperature were below the -10 C and the highest temperature were around
the 30 C. For the out liner, we can see some of them fro the graph, but
the number of them was very small.

Make a two-panel plot showing (i) tmax vs tmin for the full dataset
(note that a scatterplot may not be the best option); and (ii) make a
plot showing the distribution of snowfall values greater than 0 and less
than 100 separately by year.

``` r
plot_i = 
  tidy_ny_noaa %>%
   ggplot(aes(x = tmax, y = tmin)) +
   labs(title = "tmax vs tmin (C)",
       x = "tmax",
       y = "tmin")

ggsave("plot_i.jpg")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image
